---
sort: 1
entity: g2
entity_type: indicator
category_ref: commitment
category: Commitment
follow: false

layout: indicator

name: G2. Governance and management oversight
text: Is there oversight at board, executive, and management levels on how the company’s policies and practices affect freedom of expression and privacy?
id: G2

levels:
  - text: "1. Board-level oversight: A board committee has formal oversight over how company practices affect freedom of expression and privacy."
    id: G2.1
  - text: "2. Executive-level responsibility: An executive-level committee, team, program or officer oversees how company practices affect freedom of expression and privacy."
    id: G2.2
  - text: "3. Management-level responsibility: A management-level committee, team, program or officer oversees how company practices affect freedom of expression and privacy."
    id: G2.3

choices:

---

**Guidance:** This indicator seeks company disclosure that the company’s governance and internal management structures include consideration of freedom of expression and privacy. The decisions made by executives and managers of Internet and telecommunications companies significantly affect people’s ability to experience freedom of expression and privacy. We expect these decision-making processes, and the chain of responsibility within the company, to explicitly consider these human rights.

**Evaluation:** This indicator is scored using a checklist, meaning companies can only receive full credit if they disclose information about how they consider these issues at the board, executive, and management levels. At the board level, this would be a committee. Below board-level, it can include a company unit or individual that reports to the executive or managerial level. The committee, program, team, officer, etc. should specifically identify freedom of expression and privacy in its description of responsibilities.

**Potential sources:**

 - List of board of directors committees
 - Company governance documents
 - Company CSR/sustainability report
 - Company organizational chart
 - Company human rights policy
